h1. BaseApp2

h3. Contributing

Here are some ways *you* can contribute:

* by using alpha, beta, and prerelease versions
* by reporting bugs
* by suggesting new features
* by writing or editing documentation
* by writing specifications
* by writing code (**no patch is too small**: fix typos, add comments, clean up inconsistent whitespace)
* by refactoring code
* by resolving [issues](http://github.com/dannymcc/BaseApp2/issues)
* by reviewing patches

h3. Submitting an Issue

We use the [GitHub issue tracker](http://github.com/dannymcc/BaseApp2/issues) to track bugs and
features. Before submitting a bug report or feature request, check to make sure it hasn't already
been submitted. You can indicate support for an existing issuse by voting it up. When submitting a
bug report, please include a [Gist](http://gist.github.com/) that includes a stack trace and any
details that may be necessary to reproduce the bug, including your gem version, Ruby version, and
operating system. Ideally, a bug report should include a pull request with failing specs.

h3. Localization

rails g i18n_translation localeCode

h3. Localized paths

First, declare a localized resources in your routes.rb :

  localized do
    resources :users
  end
Then, translate your resources in your locales files (if you are using the simple Backend, or anywhere else depending on your I18n backend):

  fr:
    resources:
      users: 'utilisateurs'
After that, when you will use any users route helpers in your app, it will transparently use the correct route path depending on your current locale.

  $ rails console
  ruby-1.8.7-p249 > I18n.locale = :en
   => :en 
  ruby-1.8.7-p249 > app.users_path
   => "/users" 
  ruby-1.8.7-p249 > I18n.locale = :fr
   => :fr 
  ruby-1.8.7-p249 > app.users_path
   => "/utilisateurs" 
  ruby-1.8.7-p249 >
  
h3. Simple enum

Add this to a model:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    as_enum :gender, :female => 1, :male => 0
  end
Then create the new column using migrations:

  class AddGenderColumnToUser < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      add_column :users, :gender_cd, :integer
    end

    def self.down
      remove_column :users, :gender_cd
    end
  end
Done. Now it’s possible to pull some neat tricks on the new column, yet the original db column (gender_cd) is still intact and not touched by any fancy metaclass or similar.

  jane = User.new
  jane.gender = :female
  jane.female?   # => true
  jane.male?     # => false
  jane.gender    # => :female
  jane.gender_cd # => 1
  Easily switch to another value using the bang methods.

  joe = User.new
  joe.male!     # => :male
  joe.gender    # => :male
  joe.gender_cd # => 0
There are even some neat tricks at class level, which might be useful when creating queries, displaying option elements or similar:

  User.genders            # => { :male => 0, :female => 1 }
  User.genders(:male)     # => 0, same as User.male
  User.female             # => 1
  User.genders.female     # => 1, same as User.female or User.genders(:female)


https://github.com/lwe/simple_enum

h2. Requirements

Rails 3.1

h2. Features

- Layout
- Tabs
- Global links
- Optional sidebar
- Notice, warning and error flash messages
- Both a default stylesheet as well as a ‘clean’ one are included for easy layout development.
- Default dashboard page
- Administration panel where you can:
  Manage users (add, delete, purge, suspend, activate, send new passwords)
- Manage settings
- Manage site wide timed announcements
- Post-Commit Hooks ready to roll for Campfire, Basecamp, FriendFeed, Twitter and custom URL.
- User authentication, with password recovery and login recovery and account activation (by email)
- User Profiles:
  Location, Website, Full name fields by default, easily extendible.
  Gravatar for avatar support
- Mobile Ready
- Auto detect mobile users/visitors and display different views.
- Based on the JQTouch framework, making it easy to theme.
- Devise 
- Declarative Authorization

h2. Configatron vs. Settings

Previously, site settings were stored in the database. Now, you have two options for storing configuration settings.

1. Configatron config/config.yml

All default configuration options that are not ‘user changeable’ should go in config/config.yml. This uses the Configatron gem (frozen in vendor/gems).

To retrieve the site name you may use ‘configatron.site_name’ everywhere in your code.

2. Settings in database

It’s still possible to store user changeable settings in the database model Setting.

Note: As long as there are no Settings in the database, the ‘Settings’ tab for the administrator is hidden. Once you add a Setting to the database through a migration (or otherwise), the Settings tab will show up.

h2. Getting Started

1. At the command prompt:
     * bundle install
     * rake db:migrate
     * rails s

2. Go to http://localhost:3000/

3. Administration username and password are as follows:
     * admin
     * baseapp

h2. Collaborators

* dannymcc
* rorcraft
* rposborne
* swistaczek
* sanchitg
* t0d0r
